you’re too free to do what you like, absolutely
free, there’s no binding force except that
you feel the love of your Mother.
Supposing you are not feeling the vibrations
in your hand, there’s no way of binding
you down to Sahaja Yog, nothing.
We just advise “Go ahead, it will work out,
let it work out.”
There is no fees, there’s no registration,
there’s no compulsion, nothing.
It’s your own free will.
If you want to stick on you can stick on,
if you want to go away you can go away.
There’s no force on you of any kind.
There’s no registration of your names with
some fees or anything, I mean you are not
bound to pay anything.
If you paid something then you feel, “All
right I’ve paid for it, so go through it
what ever it is, good or bad..
Supposing you go to see a play and it’s
a horrid play but still you say, “All right
I’ve paid for it so let me go through it.”
But that you cannot do with Sahaja Yog because
you’ve not paid.
There’s nobody will force you down, nobody
will go on telephoning to you, “Come along,
please come along,” and all that.
So the attitude has to be changed, it is I
who has to gain.
Say there’s a beautiful spot somewhere.
Now that beautiful spot doesn’t send an
invitation card to anyone, everybody goes
there.
But if you have not yet discovered the beauty
of Sahaja Yog in that way and have not enjoyed
it fully, you’ll have to go again and again
and see for yourself.
It is a deliberation on your side not on the
side of the Sahaja Yogis or Sahaja Yoga.
It’s not going to fall at your feet.
That please come to Sahaja Yoga, please donate
something, nothing of the kind.
If you come you are welcome, if you don’t
come, welcome.
On the contrary, you will be surprised there’s
more rejection than acceptance in Sahaja Yog.
That’s also innately built.
I’ve seen some people who are very insincere
type they just go out from Sahaja Yoga like
a tangent.
There was a gentleman who was very troublesome
to us in Bombay and we didn’t know what
to do with him and he just got transferred
from there and we got rid of him.
So you just go out of Sahaja Yoga like a tangent
and we are saved from the botheration.
Because you must understand, if you have problems,
if you are not all right it’s a problem
for Sahaja Yogis to correct you.
It’s just the other way round, if you understand
this, then you will understand the thing,
what works out.
For example if I have to cure somebody it’s
a problem for Me and not the problem for the
person who’s sick.
Now if the tree has to grow is the problem
for the gardener not for the tree.
So the tree must see to it that it co-operates
with the gardener and gets itself developed.
If this understanding is developed, that it
is I who has to gain, it is I who has to go
forward, Mother has not to gain from me anything,
She wants me to have all my powers manifested.
She wants me to grow through it, if this attitude
is developed then you’ll work hard to grow
and you’ll work it out.
But on the contrary you see at the slightest
protest if you ego stands up and says, “Why,
why should I do this?”
To overcome this hurdle you see, we have to
build up certain stages.
That’s what Modi was telling Me.
That you first become thoughtlessly aware,
see that silence is established.
There are certain things that you do much
later, everybody is not allowed in there,
because truth can be only born by people who
are strong enough to bear it.
That’s why I’m not going to tell you who
am I, till you reach a certain stage, because
you cannot bear the light.
That’s what happened with Christ.
They crucified Him because they could not
bear Him.
Human beings are like that, they can’t even
bear an incarnation of love.
They can’t even bear love, it’s too much
for them.
Even if you give them too much love they get
upset, they get disturbed, they just can’t
bear it.
So you have to build up yourself to come to
a certain stage of understanding of Sahaja
Yoga.
It’s a state, which you achieve.
It’s a state.
You are not to be certified by anyone on them.
But it’s a state where you will start giving
realization to others and the whole way you’ll
be talking you will be in a very different
manner as if you are completely detached.
You’ll say “It is going, it is coming.”
It happens.
You will not say my mother must get, my father
must get, you will never say like that.
Because you’ll understand that the problem
of Sahaja Yoga is that it cannot give to anyone.
Like the sunshine can shine it is for the
trees to expose themselves to the sunshine
and get the advantage of it.
The sunshine is not going to run after you
all over to see that you get it.
This is the point here, it will shine the
whole day and you take it.
But it’s not that it will run after you
all the time requesting you, “Oh please
get me, oh please get me, have it, have it,”
like that.
And this is what one has to understand very
clearly, that it is you who has to ask for
it, and not anybody is going to force on you
anything.
On the contrary if anybody tries to say something
more your ego gets like that.
So try to be careful.